The link field is a special device used by the IMPs to limit certain
kinds of congestion.  They function as follows.  Between every pair of
HOSTs there are 32 logical full-duplex connections over which messages
may be passed in either direction.  The IMPs place the restriction on
these links that no HOST can send two successive messages over the
same link before the IMP at the destination has sent back a special
message called an RFNM (Request for Next Message).  This arrangement
limits the congestion one HOST can cause another if the sending HOST
is attempting to send too much over one link.  We note, however, that
since the IMP at the destination does not have enough capacity to
handle all 32 links simultaneously, the links serve their purpose only
if the overload is coming from one or two links.  It is necessary for
the HOSTs to cooperate in this respect.

The links have the following primitive characteristics.  They are
always functioning and there are always 32 of them.

By "always functioning," we mean that the IMPs are always prepared to
transmit another message over them.  No notion of beginning or ending
a conversation is contained in the IMP software.  It is thus not
possible to query an IMP about the state of a link (although it might
be possible to query an IMP about the recent history of a link --
quite a different matter!).

The other primitive characteristic of the links is that there are
always 32 of them, whether they are in use or not.  This means that
each IMP must maintain 18 tables, each with 32 entries, regardless of
the actual traffic.

The objections to the link structure notwithstanding, the links are
easily programmed within the IMPs and are probably a better
alternative to more complex arrangements just because of their
simplicity.

IMP Transmission and Error Checking

After receiving a message from a HOST, an IMP partitions the message
into one or more packets.  Packets are not more than 1010 bits long
and are the unit of data transmission from IMP to IMP.  A 24 bit
cyclic checksum is computed by the transmission hardware and is
appended to an outgoing packet.  The checksum is recomputed by the
receiving hardware and is checked against the transmitted checksum.
Packets are reassembled into messages at the destination IMP.

Open Questions on the IMP Software